---
description: >-
  This page describes the key sub-systems implemented on the JETBOX-FLOYD
  system.
---

# 3. FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW

## 3.1 Power Supply Specifications

The Jetbox-Floyd accepts a wide input voltage range of +7V to +24V. Maximum power consumption with either Nano or NX module installed and all peripherals operating is 35W. The maximum allowable reflected ripple, measured at the voltage input connector is 50 mV p-p. The input power is provided via a barrel jack with 5.5mm OD / 2.5mm ID dimensions (tip positive).

**NOTE:** _The marking "5VDC IN" on the front panel needs to be read as below:_

&#x20;_**7- 24V DC IN** and not&#x20;_~~_5VDC IN_~~

## 3.2 USB Ports

* 2x USB 2.0 ports are available on a vertically stacked dual-port USB 2.0 connector.
* The upper USB 2.0 port 1 can be used for programming during recovery mode. Jumper block JP3 is used to select host mode (normal operation) or device mode (programming operation)
* 1x USB 3.0 port terminates on an upright right-angle USB 3.0 connector. This connector also supports the USB 2.0 protocol.

The USB2.0 ports are terminated on a vertically stacked USB2.0 connector. The USB3.0 is terminated on an upright USB3.0 connector. Both these connectors are standard connectors & follow standard pinouts.

3.3 HDMI Ports


Jetbox-Floyd supports two HDMI 2.0 a/b video output options:

* 1x With Audio
* 1x Without Audio

The Nano module natively supports 1x HDMI and 1x DisplayPort. Jetbox-Floyd uses a bridge chip to convert the DP port to HDMI.

Both video outputs terminate on a dual-port vertically stacked HDMI connector. The connector follows standard HDMI pinouts.

The port HDMI - 1 is with audio & HDMI - 2 is without audio.

## 3.4 Ethernet Ports

Jetbox Floyd is equipped with one or two Gigabit Ethernet ports:&#x20;

1. (all models) A 10/100/1000 Ethernet port routed from the module.
2. &#x20;(01 model only) A 10/100/1000 Ethernet port derived from the Intel WGI210IT/Intel I210 PCIe Ethernet controller which is accessed via x1 PCIe Lane routed from the module through a PCIe switch.

Both Ethernet ports are accessed with a dual-port vertically stacked RJ-45 jack with integrated magnetics. The jacks indicate Link, Activity, and Speed status associated with each port using integrated LEDs.

RJ45 - 2 is available in the JB-FLD-\*\*\*-01 models only.

### 3.4.1 Power Over Ethernet (PoE)

The PoE+ PSE (Power Sourcing Equipment) enabled Ethernet ports on the Jetbox-Floyd can be used to power peripherals such as PoE IP-based cameras. The two ports are compliant with 802.3at Type 2 PoE+ standards and support up to 25.5W on each port, depending on the capacity of the supplied power. Jetbox-Floyd administers power negotiation between PSE and PD controllers. The auxiliary power required for the PoE circuit is supplied by a separate input power connector. The PoE input requires a supplied voltage range of 50-57VDC.

The PoE power input is terminated on the optional EXP1. Refer to [Section 10 EXPANSION SOCKETS](10.-configuration-jumpers.md) for available options .

The PoE feature is available only on the 01 Model.

## 3.5 Serial PortS Overview

Jetbox-Floyd natively supports 2 serial ports. One of these serial ports is terminated on a dedicated DB9 male connector on the front panel. The other serial port is optionally exposed on the front panel on the connector EXP 1.

Depending upon the model, the serial ports support different serial protocol modes as provided below:

| Serial Port |  **JB-FLD-NAO-01** |  **JB-FLD-NAO-02** |  **JB-FLD-XNX-01** |  **JB-FLD-XNX-02** |
| ----------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| SER 1       | RS-232/422/485     | RS-232             | RS-232/422/485     | RS-232             |
| SER 2       | RS-232/422/485     | RS-232/485         | RS-232/422/485     | RS-232/485         |

## 3.6 DIO overview

Jetbox-Floyd provides 8 DIOs optionally exposed on the front panel. The DIOs are made available on the front panel on EXP 2 connector. Refer to [Section 3.7 Expansion Connectors](3.-jetbox-floyd-system.md#3-7-expansion-connectors) to know the interfaces exposed on EXP 1 & EXP 2 connectors for different product configurations.

## 3.7 Expansion Connectors

To enhance the usability of Jetbox-Floyd, the front panel is provided with two DB9 male expansion connectors:

1. EXP1
2. EXP2

The available options for EXP connectors are tabulated below:

| **Expansion Socket** | **JB-FLD-NAO-01** | **JB-FLD-NAO-02** | **JB-FLD-XNX-01** | **JB-FLD-XNX-02** |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| EXP 1                | PoE In            | SER 2             | PoE In            | SER 2             |
| EXP 2                | DIO               | DIO               | CAN               | DIO               |

### 3.7.1 EXP1

By default, this expansion connector provides access to SER 2 available on the Floyd baseboard.&#x20;

**NOTE**: _The "RS-232" marking on the front panel needs to be read as below:_&#x20;

_**SER 1** and not&#x20;_~~_RS-232_~~_._

### 3.7.2 EXP 2

By default, this expansion connector provides access to DIO port provided by the Floyd baseboard except for JB-FLD-XNX-01.&#x20;

The Digital I/Os are 3.3V output compliant & are 5V I/P tolerant. These digital I/Os are realized with an I2C GPIO expander & can be used as Digital I/Os only.

In the JB-FLD-XNX-01, CAN interface is terminated on the EXP2 connector.
