# 12.3 Console Redirection to a Serial Port

In many applications without a local display and keyboard, it may be necessary to obtain occasional keyboard and monitor access to the CPU for configuration, file transfer, or other operations. Helios supports this activity by enabling keyboard input and character output onto a serial port, referred to as console redirection. In the Helios default BIOS configuration, console redirection is enabled on COM1 with settings of 115.2Kbaud, N, 8, 1 and is always enabled. These settings can be changed in the BIOS as described below.

&#x20;A serial port on another PC can be connected to the console serial port on Helios with a null modem cable. A null modem cable has a DB9 female connector at each end and swaps the TX and RX signals from one end to the other, so that two DTE devices can communicate directly with each other. PC serial ports are normally configured for DTE pinout.

&#x20;A terminal emulation program, such as HyperTerminal, running on the other computer can be used to establish the connection and communicate with Helios. The terminal program must be capable of transmitting special characters including F4 (some programs or configurations trap special characters).

There are three possible configurations for console redirection:

* POST-only): The console is enabled only during BIOS self-test during power-up; after the OS begins to load the console will be disabled and the serial port will be made available to the operating system.
* Always On (default setting: the console is always active and is not available to the operating system.
* Disabled: the console is never active, and the serial port is available to the operating system.

&#x20;Console redirection is configured in the BIOS according to the following steps:

1.  Enter the BIOS during power-up or reset. If you are using an attached keyboard, press **DEL.** If you are

    using console redirection, press **F4.**
2. Select the Advanced menu with the left/right arrow keys.
3. Select Console Redirection with the up/down arrow keys.
4.  In Serial Port Number, select Disabled to disable the function, or select COM1, COM2, COM3, or COM4.

    **NOTE**: If you select Disabled, you will not be able to enter BIOS again during power-up through the serial

    port. To enter BIOS when console redirection is disabled, you must attach a keyboard and monitor to the

    board and follow the standard procedure by pressing **DEL** during boot.
5. For Console Type, select ANSI.
6. You can modify the baud rate and flow control settings if desired.
7. Exit the BIOS and save your settings.
