---
description: >-
  The following section provides functional details of the key sub-systems
  implemented on the Floyd SC Daughter Board
---

# 3. FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW

## 3.1 Power Supply Specification

The Floyd SC daughter board accepts a wide input voltage range of +12V to +24V from Floyd SC baseboard. The maximum allowable reflected ripple, measured at the voltage input connector is 50 mV p-p. The input power is provided via the Daughter Board connector.

## 3.2 Expansion connector

Board supports IO expansion using the 40-Pin FFC Expansion connector from FloydSC baseboard. It supports the following interfaces via 40 pin EMX expansion connector.

**PCIe x1** - 1x Connected to mPCIe, M.2 E-Key socket and optional I210 controller

**USB3.0**  - 1x Connected to USB 3.0 hub controller

**USB2.0** - 1x Connected to USB 2.0 hub controller

**SDIO**      -  1x connected to uSD card connector or optionally to M.2 2230 E-Key socket

## 3.3 USB

The USB 3.0 and USB 2.0 signals from Floyd SC base board are connected to USB 3.0 and USB 2.0 hubs upstream ports respectively.&#x20;

The downstream ports from USB 2.0 hub are connected to M.2 E-Key socket, PCIe minicard, USB 2.0 upstream port of USB 3.0 hub.

The downstream ports from USB 3.0 hub are connected to two vertically stacked USB 3.0 type A connectors.

## 3.4 PCIe minicard socket

The board offers one minicard socket. This socket also provided USB2.0 interface along with PCIe. The socket can be used for PCIe minicards and USB doms etc. PCIe minicard socket supports full-size modules. Two threaded spacers are mounted on the board for installing a full-size module. An additional spacer is mounted on the bottom so that half minicard formfactor can also be supported. SIM card is connected to minicard socket to support LTE modems

## 3.5 M.2 E-Key socket

The daughter board is equipped with one M.2 socket. The M.2 sockets have different keying options. The socket on daughter card is of E-Key 2230 size. The M.2 E-Key socket is used for WiFi+BT applications.

## 3.6 SDIO

SDIO signals from Floyd SC daughter board drives an on-board uSD card connector. It can be used for low-cost storage applications.

## 3.7 uSIM

A uSIM connector is provided on the daughter board. This SIM is connected to the mPCIe socket. The USIM interface on the socket drives the SIM card.

## 3.8 LED Indicators

The board provides the following LED indicator. The LED is located near to board edgeon the Topside of the PCB. LED is labeled in silkscreen with their function.&#x20;

| General  | Description          |
| -------- | -------------------- |
| PWR GOOD | Power Good indicator |
