---
description: This page describes the warranty policy offered by Diamond Systems Corp.
---

# 18. LIMITED WARRANTY POLICY

Diamond Systems Corporation warrants that its products will be free from defects and errors in material and workmanship and perform in full accordance with the technical specifications stated in the description of the product for a 2-Year Period from the Date of Shipment. Unless otherwise stated, Diamond Systems Corporation Limited Warranty Policy covers the following criterion:

• It is extended to the original Purchaser/Consumer.

&#x20;• Under Terms and Conditions of the Warranty, Diamond Systems Corporation, at its sole discretion, will repair or replace any defective parts or components of its product.

• The product must be returned to Diamond Systems Corporation in the-approved packaging, pre-authorized with a Diamond Systems Corporation-assigned Return Material Authorization (RMA) Number which is referenced on the shipping document.

&#x20;• The Customer will prepay the shipment cost of the product to the Diamond Systems Corporation designated site.

&#x20;• Diamond Systems Corporation will prepay the return shipping cost of the repaired or replaced the RMA product. Diamond Systems Corporation Limited Warranty Policy does not cover product defects or damages incurred due to:

• Attempts by Customer to repair or resolve any product issues without the prior consent of Diamond Systems Corporation.

• Mishandling, misuse, neglect, normal wear, and tear, or accident.

• DIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONDITION, OR UNDER ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS, DOWNTIME, GOODWILL, DAMAGE TO OR REPLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY, ANY COSTS OF RECOVERING, REPROGRAMMING, OR REPRODUCING ANY PROGRAM OR DATA STORED IN OR USED WITH DIAMOND SYSTEMS CORPORATION PRODUCTS, AND ANY FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF DATA STORED ON THE PRODUCT.

​

NOTE: _THE LIMITED WARRANTY POLICY DOES NOT WARRANT TO REPAIR ANY OR EVERY DIAMOND SYSTEMS CORPORATION PRODUCT._
