# 4. SAMD51 Function Reference

## Init Board function

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_InitBoard (BYTE \* Board\_type)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_initboard.md)

This function initializes the SPI driver, BUSY GPIO, read the A/D, D/A calibration constants, read the board type and return to application.

## Exit Board function

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_FreeBoard()**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_freeboard.md)

This function releases the SPI driver handle and BUSY GPIO.

## **Reset** Board function

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_BoardReset()**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_boardreset.md)

This function resets the SAM.

## A/D functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_ADSetSettings (DSCSAM\_ADSETTINGS\* settings)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_adsetsettings.md)

This function configures the A/D channel(current,low & high), scan settings, A/D Trigger, A/D reference, oversampling/averaging, A/D single ended and A/D differential ended.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_ADSample (unsigned int\* Sample)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_adsample.md)

This function executes one A/D conversion using the current board settings.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_ADScan (unsigned int \* Sample)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_adscan.md)

This function executes one A/D scan (sample on all channels between Lowch and Highch).

[**double DSCSAM\_ADCorrect (BYTE ad\_channel, double ad\_raw\_voltage)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_adcorrect.md)

This function get the A/D raw voltage and A/D channel number and calculates the corrected A/D voltage using respective A/D channel calibration constants and return the corrected voltage to caller.

## D/A functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DAConvert (BYTE Channel, unsigned int DACode, BYTE Loadcal)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_daconvert.md)

This function outputs DA Code to a single D/A channel.

## Digital I/O functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOConfig (BYTE Port, BYTE Pull, BYTE Drive, BYTE Dir)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_dioconfig.md)

This function sets the digital I/O port direction, pull and drive configuration for the selected port.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOConfigAll (BYTE Pull, BYTEDrive, BYTE\*Dir)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_dioconfigall.md)

This function sets the digital I/O port directions, pull and drive configurations for all ports at once.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOOutputByte (BYTE Port, BYTE Data)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_diooutputbyte.md)

This function outputs the specified data to the specified port. The data is 8 bits for ports A and 5 bits for port B.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOInputByte (BYTE Port, BYTE\* Data)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_dioinputbyte.md)

This function reads in the data from the specified port and returns it in the location specified by the pointer to data.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOBitConfig (BYTE Port, BYTE Bit, BYTE Pull, BYTE Drive, BYTE Dir)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_diobitconfig.md)

This function sets the digital I/O bit direction, pull and drive configuration for the selected port bit.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOOutputBit (BYTE Port, BYTE Bit, BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_diooutputbit.md)

This function outputs a single bit to an output port. The other bits remain at their current values.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_DIOInputBit (BYTE Port, BYTE Bit, BYTE \* Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_dioinputbit.md)

This function reads in the specified bit from the specified port and returns it in the location specified by the pointer to data.

## Special functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_WLANControl (BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_wlancontrol.md)

This function controls the minicard WLAN specific to Jetson carrier.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_FANControl (BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_fancontrol.md)

This function controls the Fan specific to Jetson carrier.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_LTEControl (BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_ltecontrol.md)

This function controls the LTE modem specific to Jetson carrier.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_LEDControl (BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_ledcontrol.md)

This function controls the User LED specific to Jetson carrier.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_CAMERAControl (BYTE Value)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_cameracontrol.md)

This function controls the camera specific to Jetson carrier.

## Serial Port functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_SerialPortConfig (BYTE Mode,BYTE Port)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_serialportconfig.md)

This function configures the serial port mode.

## Flash functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_FLASHWrite (int Address, BYTE Data)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_flashwrite.md)

This function writes the data into user specified flash address

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_FLASHRead (int Address, BYTE \* Data)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_flashread.md)

This function read the data from user specified flash address

## Temperature functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_TemperatureSensorRead (int\* Data)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_temperaturesensorread.md)

This function read the SAM device temperature.

## Serial Number functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_SerialNumberRead (int\* SerialNumber)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_serialnumberread.md)

This function read the SAM device serial number (128 bit).

## Board Type Identification and Firmware revision functions

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_BoardType (BYTE \* Board\_type)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_boardtype.md)

This function read the board type.

[**BYTE DSCSAM\_FirmwareRevision (BYTE \* Rev\_ID)**](9.-samd51-apis/dscsam_firmwarerevision.md)

This function reads the firmware revision ID.
