# 6.7 Extracting WIM File

**Note:** This step is required only if the .wim file has to be created so that the same image can be used multiple times on different system. Otherwise proceed with the next step.&#x20;

1. Connect the HDD which contains windows 10 and M.2 2242 which contains the Windows 10 customized OS installed to the Saturn board. \

2. Boot the Saturn board to WinPE bootable pen drive. \

3. WinPE built in DISM tool can be used to capture the image.\

4. Use below command to capture the drive of M.2 2242. \
   \
   **X:\Windows\System32> DISM.exe /Capture-Image /ImageFile:D: Saturn.wim /CaptureDir:C:** \
   **/Name: Saturn /Bootable** \
   \
   **X:\Windows\System32> DISM.exe /Capture-Image /ImageFile:D:\system.wim /CaptureDir:S: /Name: Saturn \_system** \
   \
   **NOTE:** /Bootable flag is mandatory, System.wim creation also mandatory. \
   \
   **Elapsed time:** around 5 minutes. \
   \
   Here C: is the Drive letter for M.2 2242 which has the installed Windows 10 customized OS image, Saturn.wim is the file name for the file that will be created (any name with file extension as .wim can be used). D: is the drive letter where we want to store created Saturn.wim file, it will be HDD or Pen drive. X: is the WinPE bootable Drive. S: is system reserved partition. \
   \
   So by now **Saturn.wim** and **system.wim** files should be created in D: directory. \

5. The image can now be dumped to any other M.2 2242 disk with 64GB capacity say M.2 2242 1. Before proceeding further make M.2 2242 1 Bootable by following the steps mentioned in[ Appendix A](../7.-appendixes/7.1-appendix-a-steps-to-make-usb-m.2-2242-drive-bootable.md)**.**

Now you are having one 64GB Bootable drive i.e. M.2 2242 1. Keep attached pen drive or HDD which is having Saturn.wim and system.wim. Boot from the bootable WinPE pen drive.\
\
Then give the following command. \
\
**X:\Windows\System32> DISM.exe /Apply-Image /ImageFile:D: Saturn.wim /Index:1 /ApplyDir:W:** \
\
**X:\Windows\System32> DISM.exe /Apply-Image /ImageFile:D:\system.wim /Index:1 /ApplyDir:R:** \
\
**X:\Windows\System32>bcdboot.exe w:\Windows /s R:**\
\
**Elapsed time:** around 20 minutes. \
\
Here **W**: is the Drive letter for M.2 2242 1 which has 59GB partition and R is 100MB partition of the M.2 2242 1.D drive having the stored Saturn.wim and system.wim file. \
\
**Elapsed time:** around 20 minutes. \
\
Where **J**: is the drive letter for M.2 2242 1.
