---
description: >-
  This page describes the Counter/Timer operation of the DAQ subsystem available
  on Athena IV.
---

# Counter/Timer Operation

Athena IV contains two counter/timers that provide various timing functions on the board for A/D timing and user functions. These counters are controlled with registers in the on-board data acquisition controller FPGA.

## 13.5.1 Counter 0 – A/D Sample Control&#x20;

Counter 0 is a 24-bit, “divide-by-n” counter used for controlling A/D sampling. The counter has a clock input, a gate input, and an output. The input is a 10MHz or 1MHz clock provided on the SBC and selected with bit CKFRQ0 in register Base+4, bit 5. The gate is an optional signal that can be input on pin 21 of I/O header J14 when DIOCTR (Base+11, bit 7) is 0. If this signal is not used, the counter runs freely. The output is a positive pulse whose frequency is equal to the input clock divided by the 24-bit divisor programmed into the counter. The output appears on pin 24 of the I/O header when DIOCTR is 0.&#x20;

The counter operates by counting down from the programmed divisor value. When the counter reaches zero, it outputs a positive-going pulse equal to one input clock period (100ns or 1μs, depending on the input clock selected by CKFRQ0). The counter then reloads to the initial load value and repeats the process, indefinitely.&#x20;

The output frequency can range from 5MHz (10MHz clock, divisor = 2) to 0.06Hz (1MHz clock divided by 16,777,215, or 224-1). The output is fed into the A/D timing circuit and can be selected to trigger A/D conversions when Base+4 register bits AINTE is 1 and ADCLK is 0. Using the control register at Base+15, the counter can be loaded, cleared, enabled and disabled. The optional gate can be enabled and disabled and the counter value can be latched for reading.

## 13.5.2 Counter 1 – Counting/Totalizing Functions&#x20;

Counter 1 is similar to Counter 0 except that it is a 16-bit counter. Counter 1 also has an input, a gate and an output. These signals may be user-provided on the I/O header when DIOCTR is 0, or the input may come from the on-board clock generator. When the on-board clock generator is used, the clock frequency is either 10MHz or 100KHz, as determined by control Base+4 register bit CKFRQ1.&#x20;

The output is a positive-going pulse that appears on pin 26 of the I/O header. The output pulse occurs when the counter reaches zero. When the counter reaches zero, it reloads and restarts on the next clock pulse. The output stays high for the entire time the counter is at zero; i.e., from the input pulse that causes the counter to reach zero until the input pulse that causes the counter to reload.&#x20;

When DIOCTR is 0, Counter 1 operates as follows.&#x20;

1. It counts positive edges of the signal on pin 23 on the I/O header
2. The gate is provided on pin 22. If the signal is high, the counter counts. If the signal is low, the counter holds its value and ignores input pulses. This pin has a pull-up so the counter can operate without any external gate signal.

**NOTE:** _When counting external pulses, Counter 1 only updates its read register every fourth pulse. This behavior is due to the synchronous design of the counter having to contend with the asynchronous input pulses. The count register contents are correct on the fourth pulse but remain static until four additional pulses occur on the input._&#x20;

When DIOCTR is 1, Counter 1 operates as follows:

The counter takes its input from the on-board clock generator based on the value of the Base+4 register CKFRQ1 bit. There is no gating and the counter runs continuously.&#x20;

Counter 1 may be used as either a pulse generator or a totalizer/counter. In pulse generator mode, the output signal on pin 26 is of interest. In totalizer/counter mode, the counter value is of interest and may be read by first latching the value and then reading it. The width of the pulse is equal to the time period of the selected counters clock source.

## 13.5.3 Command Sequences&#x20;

Diamond Systems provides driver software to control the counter/timers on Athena IV. The information in this section is intended as a guide for programmers writing their own code, instead of using the driver, and to give a better understanding of the counter/timer operation.&#x20;

The counter control register is located at I/O address base+15.

### 13.5.3.1 Load and Enable (Run) a Counter Sequence&#x20;

1. **Write the data to the counter. For counter 0, three bytes are required to load a 24-bit value. For counter 1, two bytes are needed for a 16-bit value. The value is an unsigned integer.**&#x20;

Break the load value into 3 bytes: low, middle, and high, (Two bytes for Counter 1) and write the bytes to the data registers in any sequence.&#x20;

Counter 0:&#x20;

```
outp(base+12,low);
outp(base+13,middle);
outp(base+14,high);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+12,low);
outp(base+13,high);
```

2\. **Load the counter.**&#x20;

Counter 0:&#x20;

```
outp(base+15,0x02);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0x82);
```

3\. **Enable the gate if desired. The gating may be enabled or disabled at any time. When gating is disabled, the counter counts all incoming edges. When gating is enabled, if the gate is high the counter counts all incoming edges and, if the gate is low, the counter ignores incoming clock edges.**&#x20;

Counter 0:

```
outp(base+15,0x02);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0x82);
```

&#x20;4\. **Enable the counter. A counter may be enabled or disabled at any time. If disabled, the counter ignores incoming clock edges.**&#x20;

Counter 0:&#x20;

```
outp(base+15,0x04);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0x84);
```

### 13.5.3.2 Read a Counter Sequence&#x20;

1\. **Latch the counter.**

Counter 0:

```
outp(base+15,0x40);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0xC0);
```

2\. **Read the data.**&#x20;

The value is returned in 3 bytes, low, middle, and high (2 bytes for counter 1).

Counter 0:

```
low=inp(base+12);
middle=inp(base+13);
high=inp(base+14);
```

Counter 1:

```
low=inp(base+12);
high=inp(base+13);
```

3\. **Assemble the bytes into the complete counter value.**

Counter 0:

```
val = high * 216 + middle * 28 + low;
```

Counter 1:

```
val = high * 28 + low;
```

### 13.5.3.3 Disabling the Counter Gate Command&#x20;

Disabling the counter gate, as shown below, causes the counter to run continuously.

Counter 0:

```
outp(base+15,0x20); 
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0xA0);
```

### 13.5.3.4 Clearing a Counter Sequence&#x20;

Clear a counter to restart an operation. Normally, a counter is only cleared after stopping (disabling) and reading the counter. If you clear a counter while it is enabled, it continues to count incoming pulses so the counter value may not remain at zero.&#x20;

1. **Stop (disable) the counter**

Counter 0:

```
outp(base+15,0x08);
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0x88);
```

2\. **Read the data (optional).**&#x20;

The value is returned in 3 bytes, low, middle, and high (2 bytes for counter 1).

Counter 0:

```
low=inp(base+12);
middle=inp(base+13);
high=inp(base+14);
```

Counter 1:

```
low=inp(base+12);
high=inp(base+13);
```

3\. **Clear the counter**

Counter 0:

```
outp(base+15,0x01); 
```

Counter 1:

```
outp(base+15,0x81);
```
